---
layout: post
author: "TED Staff"
title: "Are you ready for the Countdown Global Launch? Tune in Saturday, 10.10.2020"
date: 2020-10-06
---

Grab your friends and family, and tune in to YouTube.com/TED for the Countdown Global Launch this Saturday, October 10, 2020 at 11am ET.

TED’s first-ever free conference, the Global Launch kicks off Countdown, a global initiative to champion and accelerate solutions to the climate crisis. This weekend’s virtual event will explain why the climate crisis is so urgent, share ideas from experts in a range of fields and call on leaders and citizens everywhere to take action. Expect a day packed with more than 50 speakers, activists, actors and musicians in five curated sessions of actionable and science-backed ideas paired with moments of wonder, inspiration and optimism.

This special event will feature hosts Jane Fonda, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Don Cheadle, Al Gore, Xiye Bastida, Prajakta Koli, Hannah Stocking and Jaden Smith; and speakers Prince William, His Holiness Pope Francis, Monica Araya, Jesper Brodin, Dave Clark, Christiana Figueres, Kara Hurst, Lisa Jackson, Rose M. Mutiso, Johan Rockström, Nigel Topping, Ursula von der Leyen and many more; with special musical performances by Prince Royce, Sigrid and Yemi Alade.

The Countdown Global Launch, presented by TED and Future Stewards, will run from 11am – 5pm ET. Segments from the event, including the biggest talks and performances, will be made available immediately across TED’s digital platforms.

For more information and to #JoinTheCountdown, visit countdown.ted.com and follow along live this Saturday on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
