---
layout: post
author:  "TED Staff"
title: "Join us for TEDWomen 2020: Fearless on November 12"
date: 2020-10-23
---

TEDWomen 2020 is nearly here! The day-long conference will take place on November 12 via TED’s new virtual conference platform. TEDWomen attendees will experience TED’s signature talks as well as an array of live, interactive sessions, community “idea dates,” small-group speaker Q&As and more. The talks featured in the program have been developed in collaboration with an incredible group of TEDx organizers from Lagos, Nigeria; Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago; Montreal, Canada; Colombo, Sri Lanka; and Sydney, Australia. TEDWomen will celebrate and amplify dynamic, multi-dimensional ideas from these communities and around the world.

In the midst of uncertainty, the greatest peril is to retreat or become immobilized. At TEDWomen, we’ll hear from bold leaders who are stepping forward and taking action.

TEDWomen 2020 speakers and performers include:

Kluane Adamek, Assembly of First Nations Yukon Regional Chief
Kylar W. Broadus, Human and civil rights attorney and advocate
Kemi DaSilva-Ibru, Women’s health specialist
Adie Delaney, Educator and performer
Elizabeth Diller, Architect, artist and designer
Julia Gillard, 27th Prime Minister of Australia
Jamila Gordon, AI advocate
Kesha, Musician, actress, activist
María Teresa Kumar, Civic leader
JayaShri Maathaa, Monk
Megan McArthur, NASA astronaut
Madison McFerrin, Singer and songwriter
Renee Montgomery, WNBA champion and activist
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Economist and international development expert
Angélique Parisot-Potter, Legal and business integrity leader
Sophie Rose, Infectious disease researcher
Apiorkor Seyiram Ashong-Abbey, Poet and author
Gloria Steinem, Feminist activist and writer
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Politician
Tracy Young, Builder
View the full speaker lineup
TED has partnered with a number of organizations to support its mission and contribute to the idea exchange at TEDWomen 2020. These organizations are collaborating with the TED team on innovative ways to engage a virtual audience and align their ideas and perspectives with this year’s programming. This year’s partners include: Boston Consulting Group, Dove Advanced Care Antiperspirant, Project Management Institute and the U.S. Air Force.

TEDWomen 2020 is taking place on November 12, 11am – 6pm ET. TEDWomen applications will be accepted until 9am ET, November 9 (or until sold out).
